
Implementor (Front-End)
  Is the language design fit for front-end implementation?
  For each of the new aspects, are the new grammar and legality
  rules clear enough to implement?
  For each new Restriction, is the intent and meaning of the restriction
  sufficiently clear and detailed to be implemented?


Ident: FE-YM1
Section: 6.1.4
Page/para: 26 .. 28
Comment: The description of mode refinement in not clear enough for
  implementation. I suggest that this section is reformatted, with a clear
  intent, some examples, an intuition behind the names "moded_item eligible"
  and "independent". It could be clearer also if this section was preceded
  by the description of Global and Param aspects. I am also in favor of the
  merge of Global and Param aspects suggested by Steve.
Status: This detail has been vastly simplified and moved into the relevant
        sections that use it. [JIB] 


Ident: FE-YM2
Section: 6.1.5
Page/para: 29
Comment: The description of global aspect seems to suppose a constructive
  approach, when it says
    "A name that denotes a global variable appearing in a precondition or
     postcondition aspect of a subprogram must also appear in the
     global_aspect of the same subprogram."
  Also, the legality rules mentions the special case of X'First, X'Last, etc.
  for arrays, without doing the same for discriminants.
  Also, the comments in examples should be phrased in user terms, so "global
  variable V may be read by the subprogram" instead of "V is a mode in global
  item" which simply duplicates the example code.
Status: First two points are addressed since the relevant rules have been removed.
        Final point on comments has been actioned. [JIB]


Ident: FE-YM3
Section: 6.1.6
Page/para: 30
Comment: The description of param aspect is inconsistent with the description
  of the global aspect. For example it does not say anything about X'First,
  X'Last, etc. for an array X. I strongly suggest we follow Steve's idea of
  combining the descriptions of param and global aspects.
Status: The detail on param aspects has now been removed. [JIB] 


Ident: FE-YM4
Section: 6.1.7
Page/para: 31
Comment: The description of dependency aspect introduces BNF non-terminals
  before the BNF grammar is given, which is slightly confusing.
  I am not clear about the definition of imports and exports (especially true
  in the retrospective approach). Should a global aspect be given every time a
  dependency aspect is given? Or should global variables be deduced from
  the dependency aspect?
Status: Updates made to address the non-terminals issue. Imports and exports
        renamed as inputs and outputs and definitions improved. The LRM as it
        currently stands does not mandate a global aspect every time a depends
        aspect is given. Rather it states a rule that a global aspect should
        be synthesized if one does not exist. [JIB] 


Ident: FE-YM5
Section: 6.1.7
Page/para: 32
Comment: What is the name for the dependency aspect? Earlier in the LRM it is
  said "Dependency", here it says "Depends".
Status: All references to this updated to be Depends aspect. [JIB] 


Ident: FE-YM6
Section: 6.1.7
Page/para: 33
Comment: The legality rules for dependency aspect are not clear. Rule 8 is
  completely confused, probably as a result of a merge. Rule 9 is not clear:
  what if A(I) is an export, and A(J).F also? It may appear that A(J).F is
  a subcomponent of A(I) if I=J at run time.
Status: The corresponding rules are no longer relevant so have been removed. [JIB]


Ident: FE-YM7
Section: 6.1.7
Page/para: 33 .. 34
Comment: The static semantics for dependency aspects are not clear enough for
  implementation. I suggest rewording more in line with Ada RM.
Status: These have now been reworded. [JIB]


Ident: FE-YM8
Section: 6.3.3
Page/para: 36/1
Comment: This is the first occurrence of refined_global_aspect without previous
  definition. This is also the first occurrence of restriction Strict_Modes,
  also without a previous definition. Wording is currently too complex to
  be implemented. It mentions "executable path" without prior definition.
Status: 


Ident: FE-YM9
Section: 6.3.4
Page/para: 36
Comment: Why allow global aspects on a stub? AFAIK, a stub cannot have
  Pre/Post aspects, only the body can.
Status: 


Ident: FE-YM10
Section: 6.3.4
Page/para: 36
Comment: It is said that
  "If the subprogram has a refined_global_aspect (see Refined Global Aspect),
   this has to be checked for consitency with the global_aspect and influences
   the rules for checking the implementation of its body as described below."
  but, if a subprogram has a refined_global_aspect, it cannot have a
  global_aspect. Only its declaration can have one, and I see no need to
  discuss that in 6.3.4 on subprogram bodies.
Status: 


Ident: FE-YM11
Section: 6.3.4
Page/para: 36
Comment: It is said that in the 2nd legality rule:
  "A subprogram, shall not declare, immediately within its body, an entity of
   the same name as a moded_item or the name of the object of which the
   moded_item is a subcomponent, [...]"
  What is the rationale for this rule? This looks like a coding standard rule
  from SPARK 2005 to me, not something that we should enforce in SPARK 2014.
Status: 



-----------------------------------------

Comments form Jon Burton



Ident: FE-JIB12
Section: General
Page/para: N/A
Comment: There are references throughout the document to being "in SPARK 2014" and "out of SPARK 2014". Since not  
being in SPARK 2014 is not an obstacle to compilation but in certain circumstances we may wish to enforce
that only SPARK 2014 constructs are used, then it is not clear from the LRM as it currently stands what should 
be done when implementing legality rules if a given syntactic entity is found not to be in SPARK 2014. 
Status: 


Ident: FE-JIB13
Section: General
Page/para: N/A
Comment: The definition in the LRM of what is in and what is out of SPARK 2014 is incomplete in that it does not cover
all syntactic entities. For example, when is a subprogram body in SPARK 2014? Or section 6.1.1 says that the 
post-condition of a subprogram declaration must be in SPARK 2014 if the subprogram declaration itself is to be
in SPARK 2014; however, I can t find anywhere a definition of what it means for a post-condition to be in SPARK 
2014.
Status: 


Ident: FE-JIB14
Section: General
Page/para: N/A
Comment: Throughout the document, there is narrative text that is intended purely to provide context and 
there is text that appears to be narrative   since it does not appear under a specific heading 
such as Legality Rules   but is obviously intended to be implemented. It would be good if every 
rule to be implemented could appear under a heading that makes clear it is to be implemented. 
For example, in section 11 on exceptions, the first and third paragraphs provide contextual 
information, while the second paragraph gives the rule to be implemented. The same applies to the
text throughout the document that defines syntactic entities as being in or out of SPARK 2014.
Status: 


Ident: FE-JIB15
Section: 4.1.3
Page/para: 13
Comment: This section defines a general principle and then gives one specific example. It is not clear if 
this specific example is to be implemented due to it being stated here, or if it is just an 
example. That is, is there only one such element in this set of illegal items, or are they 
distributed across the rest of the document. 
Status: 


Ident: FE-JIB16
Section: 4.3.4
Page/para: pp 14-15
Comment: This section needs to be written as a series of numbered requirements rather than as a narrative,
with headings such as Legality Rules, etc, so we know what exactly needs to be implemented and to allow easy 
apportionment to the tool architecture. 
Status: 


Ident: FE-JIB17
Section: 6.1.7
Page/para: 32/Syntax
Comments: If a conditional dependency is used, then a given export may be derived from null.
However, as far as I can see an export cannot be derived from null when a non-conditional dependency is given.
Status: This has been corrected. [JIB]


Ident: FE-JIB18
Section: 6.1.7
Page/para: 33/item 8 
Comment: Possibly a cut and paste error as the first two sentences don t make sense.
Status: No longer relevant as the corresponding rules have been removed. [JIB]


Ident: FE-JIB19
Section: 6.1.7
Page/para: 33/ N/A
Comment: There appears to be some duplication/overlap between rules here: items 4 and 9, items 6 and 10, items 7 and 11.
Status: This has been fixed. [JIB]


Ident: FE-JIB20
Section: 7.1.2
Page/para: 45/ N/A
Comment: Static Semantics items 1-3: are these really legality rules?
Status: No longer relevant due to updates that have been made. [JIB]


Ident: FE-JIB21
Section: 7.1.4
Page/para: 47/Legality Rules
Comment: Should this list not be more extensive, providing counterparts of some of the legality rules given in
section 6.1.7? 
Status: Text has now been updated to explicitly include those rules from subprogram Depends that are
        relevant to package Depends. [JIB]


Ident: FE-JIB22
Section: 7.2.8
Page/para: 58/Legality Rules
Comment: Item 2: I assume this means the legality rules defined in the Ada RM (since there are some rules defined
under Global Aspects in this document   section 6.1.5, p.29   that constrain preconditions).
Status: 


Ident: FE-JIB23
Section: 7.2.9
Page/para: 59/Legality Rules
Comment: Item 2: I assume this means the legality rules defined in the Ada RM (since there are some rules defined
under Global Aspects in this document   section 6.1.5, p.29   that constrain postconditions).
Status: 



Ident: FE-JIB24
Section: A
Page/para: 78/6.2
Comment: Strict_Modes is to be handled by flow analysis. Is checking by the flow analyser
compatible with being specified  
as a pragma Restriction, when a Restriction violation leads to a compile-time error?
Status: 


Ident: FE-JIB25
Section: A
Page/para: 79/6.4.2
Comment: Global_Aspects_Required, Global_Aspects_On_Procedure_Decalarations, Array_Elements_Assumed_To_Overlap, 
Abstract_State_Aspects_Required and Initializes_Aspects_Required appear to be instructions to the flow analyser 
rather than restrictions as such (since if the thing they require is absent then an assumption is made         
regarding what it should be, rather than an error being flagged). Is it OK that they are handled as pragma 
Restrictions, when a Restriction violation leads to a compile-time error?
Status: 


