
SECTION I: Summary and Recommendation

Summary of Evaluation

Overall quality is:

Excelent
Score

Please select the score of the paper.

Strong Accept
Confidence

Please select your confidence.

High
SECTION III: Overview

Reader Interest

1. Is the paper of current interest to a reasonable segment of the journal?

Yes

2. Relative to the current level of reader interest in the paper, how is this interest likely to change during the next five years?

Growing interest

3. Within its particular field of specialization, is the topic of the paper considered important?

Yes, definitely
Content

1. Is the paper technically sound?
(not necessary for style review)

Yes

2. How would you describe the technical depth of the paper?

Appropriate for someone working in the field

3. Does the paper make a tangible contribution to the state-of-the-art in its field?

Yes, definitely

4. Is the bibliography adequate?

Yes

5. To what extent is the material in the paper likely to be used by other researchers and practitioners?

Average
Presentation

1. Is the abstract an appropriate and adequate digest of the work presented?

Yes

2. Does the introduction clearly state the background and motivation in terms understandable to the non-specialist?

Yes

3. How would you rate the overall organization of the paper?

Satisfactory

4. Relative to the technical content, is the length of the paper appropriate?

Yes

5. Is the English satisfactory

Yes

6. How readable is the paper for a computer scientist or engineer who is not a specialist in this particular field

Readable with ordinary effort

7. Disregarding the technical content, how would you regard the quality of presentation?

Excellent
Section IV: Detailed Comments for Author(s)

Mandatory, please elaborate on your judgement.

This revised version clearly improves on the previous one.
Not all my comments regarding the first version have been taken into account by
the authors. Yet I'm in favor of acceptance, even without further revision, since
the current state of the paper is now quite good.

A minor question regarding the definition of constant Maximum on page 10:
Instead of Index'Last, I would rather have used 2^Tree_Depth, which is a tighter
bound. Am I missing something.
