   Ident: JEB01
   Section: 1.2
   Page/para: para 1.
   Comment: Typo: "with subsequent releases of the toolset" (not software) to be consistent with earlier text.

   Ident: JEB02
   Section: 1.2
   Page/para: last line.
   Comment: Mandatory : What are you trying to convey here. Clearly the content of the document may change when the document is updated. Do you actually mean that the target of particular scope of work may change?

   Ident: JEB03
   Section: 1.4
   Page/para: Item 1.
   Comment: Typos: expression -> expressions AND pragamas -> pragmas.

   Ident: JEB04
   Section: General
   Page/para: General
   Comment: Desirable: The use of hyperlink cross references that refer to names rather than section numbers makes a print-out of the document hard to navigate. Would it be possible to include the section number / page number in these cross references too?

   Ident: JEB05
   Section: 1.7.2
   Page/para: Final
   Comment: Typo: easier to read as "... belong in this document, in future it...." (replace "then" with ",")

   Ident: JEB06
   Section:1.7.4
   Page/para: Final sentence
   Comment: Typo: replace "that" with "this" I think. "Where greater precision is required, this will..."

   Ident: JEB07
   Section: 1.7.5
   Page/para: 
   Comment: Desirable: Could we cross reference section 1.10 here? End of chapter is a bit vague especially as the final section in this chapter is Notes on the current draft.

   Ident: JEB08
   Section: 1.8
   Page/para: para 7.
   Comment: Typo: "but a may" should read "but may"

   Ident: JEB09
   Section: 1.8
   Page/para:  page 8 para 2.
   Comment: Desirable: Phrase "are only partly within the SPARK 2014 language and other parts in another language" is difficult to read, perhaps replace "and" with "with" or replace "and other parts in another language" with "where other parts are in another language".

   Ident: JEB10
   Section: 1.8
   Page/para: page 8 para 2
   Comment: Mandatory: Why "|SPARK|"? is this some control sequence?

   Ident: JEB11
   Section: 1.8
   Page/para: page 8
   Comment: Mandatory: The statement "Support for specifying and verifying properties of secure systems shall be improved" is a very weak statement, improved as compared with what? 

   Ident: JEB12
   Section: 1.8
   Page/para: page 8 Final bullet
   Comment: Desirable: I don't like the use of the word "significant". Do you mean "observable effect" or "discernable effect".

   Ident: JEB13
   Section: 1.2
   Page/para: 
   Comment: Desirable: It would be useful to make a statement as to which milestone this document corresponds to. Throughout we refer to things being deferred to Milestone A or Release B. I would like to see something that states that this is Milestone X version so that we know how soon deferred material will appear and it would enable checking that there are no references to past milestones.

   Ident: JEB14
   Section: 1.9.5
   Page/para: General
   Comment: Observation: Will generative analysis support abstract state? Or will it be based purely on the concrete state. 

   Ident: JEB15
   Section:4.1.4
   Page/para: Second ToDo
   Comment: Observation: As Language Defined attributes form Appendix K of the ARM I suggest that the supported Attributes should be presented in an appendix.

   Ident: JEB16
   Section: Sections 2 onward
   Page/para: General
   Comment: Desirable: Where language restrictions are made it would be nice if there was a trace back to the strategic requirement that causes the restriction. I think this would help motivate the restrictions. 

   Ident: JEB17
   Section: 5.1
   Page/para: Item 1
   Comment: Desirable: Put delay_statement before abort_statement to match order in ARM.

   Ident: JEB0
   Section: 6.1
   Page/para: page 31 para 2
   Comment: Mandatory: Why "[SPARK]" is this a control sequence that should be expanded to SPARK 2014?

   Ident: JEB0
   Section:6.1.3
   Page/para: page 33
   Comment: Desirable: Is the function "Exactly_One_Of" defined somewhere? Surely this expands to
      (A1 and not A2 and not ... and not An)
   Or (not A1 and A2 and not ... and not An)
   Or ...
   Or (not A1 and not A2 and not ... and An)


   Ident: JEB18
   Section: 6.1.3
   Page/para: page 34 Verification Rule 1
   Comment: Typo : "has to proven" should read "has to be proven"

   Ident: JEB19
   Section: 6.1.4
   Page/para: page 35 first para
   Comment: Observation : I take it that in this requirement the formal parameter referred to is a formal parameter of an enclosing subprogram, otherwise it would suggest that global lists include the formal parameters of the subprogram declaration with which they are associated. 

   Ident: JEB20
   Section: 6.1.4
   Page/para: page 35 Semantics last requirement
   Comment: Desirable: I assume that In_Out is both and input and an output mode. Would this not be clearer to state that a global data item that is only used in a proof context must have a Proof_In mode?

   Ident: JEB21
   Section: 6.1.4
   Page/para: page 36 Dynamic Semantics
   Comment: Typo : "Global aspect" not just "Global" to be consistent with rest of section.

   Ident: JEB22
   Section: 6.3.3
   Page/para: page 42 First para in section
   Comment: Typo: "its its" should read "its". Remove duplicate word. 

   Ident: JEB23
   Section: 6.3.3 and 6.3.4
   Page/para: General
   Comment: Comment withdrawn

   Ident: JEB24
   Section:6.4.2
   Page/para: page 44 Verification rules 1
   Comment: Typo: "at least one of corresponding" should read "at least one of the corresponding"

   Ident: JEB25
   Section: 6.4.2
   Page/para: page 44 Verification rules 2 and 3
   Comment: I would prefer to see these two rules reworded in the form "In SPARK 2014, a procedure call shall not pass..." The current wording is a bit difficult to read and not as formal as other rules, also it would be helpful if each rule statement was stand alone.

   Ident: JEB26
   Section: 7
   Page/para: page 47 second para. 
   Comment: Observation: is it possible to avoid the double negative here. 

   Ident: JEB27
   Section: 7.1.2
   Page/para: page 48 para 2
   Comment: Desirable: the use of the word "may" here suggests that the Volatile Input can appear as an Output in global aspects is that really possible? Similarly for Volatile Output.

   Ident: JEB28
   Section: 7.1.3
   Page/para: page 48 item 1 Rationale
   Comment: Typo: "since modular is analysis performed" should read "since modular analysis is performed"

   Ident: JEB29
   Section: 7.1
   Page/para: page 50 
   Comment: Typo, should the static semantics numbered items restart from 1 twice (following notes)?

   Ident: JEB30
   Section: 7.1
   Page/para: page 50 second item 2. 
   Comment: Typo, "specification is is" should read "specification is"

   Ident: JEB31
   Section: 7.1
   Page/para: page 50 Verification Rules
   Comment: Typo, "Verification Rules" is capitalised here but "dynamic semantics" is not in the next para. Which is right?
 
   Ident: JEB32
   Section: 7.1.5
   Page/para: page 52 items 2 and 3
   Comment: Typo: I think you mean "initial condition specific" not "initializes-specific" in both these paras.

   Ident: JEB33
   Section: 7.2.6
   Page/para: page 56 para 7 (3rd requirement, 2nd bullet)
   Comment: Desirable: This would be easier to read as "Abstract(X) does not have another mode" rather than "Abstract(X) will not have another mode".

   Ident: JEB34
   Section: Appendix A
   Page/para: Through-out (eg page 113 code line 24, page 120 code line 13)
   Comment: Desirable: I appreciate that the appendix was not subject to review but if it is being published with the remaining LRM then I really think that the examples must match the LRM. In particular the use of "Refined_ " aspects is very patchy in the appendix. Originally this caused me to believe that the material in 6.3.3 and 6.3.4 regarding where Global and Depends aspects may appear were wrong.

   Ident: JEB35
   Section: General
   Page/para:
   Comment: Observation: Much improved from last time. Note that I have not commented where I feel the subsequent "ToDo" addresses a weakness in the preceding text.
